---
layout: post
title: "Medium: Down with the 'Quick Fix'"
date: 2018-09-29
---

[Link to original post](https://medium.com/@paul.n.gregg/down-with-the-quick-fix-d3d77c3545e9).

No shortcuts!

I’m writing this as a reflection on my effort the past few months to habituate writing in this form. My big takeaway? Just producing content was the right first step, but it’s no cause for celebration.

I’m happy to have (somewhat) habituated writing. But anyone can produce content. In fact, in this day and age, *so* many people do. The internet has led to a huge proliferation of personal expression across all media. And while I’ll never knock someone down for wanting to express themselves in any way, I will say that it has set a standard for quality that we should not be satisfied with.

Not that the internet really set this standard. Humans have always sought the easiest-path forward. But the sheer magnitude of easiest-path-content out there has created a dilution problem, in the external and internal world. Externally, we have fake news, 1000 new vlogs a day, and an army of armchair philosophers and politicians. Internally, we are lowering our standards for patience and due diligence when creating or evaluating content. We read buzzwordy headlines and only skim longer articles. Nobody reads books anymore. And when it comes to creation, we narrate our lives in 140-character sequences and lose the long horizon of quiet, patient reflection.

Or rather, I should say, that is how I’m feeling internally. And that has been my frustration with trying to write so far, and why I’m writing this piece.

***

If you, like me, have found yourself looking for ways to make your writing *pop* more, the best way is probably to draft more. Research, talk to people, mull it over, rewrite, delete, write. But it’s much easier to spend a few moments looking up synonyms to make you sound more percipient. If I slap a few big words into an article, that definitely helps in glossing over the fact that a lot of the issues I discuss are under-researched and over-stream-of-consciousness-ed. This leaves my perspective under-informed and muddy, which results in posing more questions and criticisms than providing solutions. There’s a time and place for criticism, but anyone can do that. What we need more of is the long and hard work of providing solutions, thoughtfully and concisely.

It’s a lesson from exercise as well. Just going for a run is all well and good. But if you want to excel, it doesn’t suffice to run/lift/swim/whatever until you’re tired. The real returns come from the work you put in *after* you’re tired. Transcending previous ability requires literally stepping beyond your ability, not just pushing up to that point repeatedly.

Furthermore, if you don’t want to hurt yourself, you have to do this *strategically*. If you just run yourself into the ground, you’re going to hurt yourself and diminish your returns over the long run.

This all requires a degree of skill, control, intelligence, and humility. We can all brag about how good we are at wearing ourselves out, but what do we really have to show for it?

This is American workaholism at its finest. Obsession with busyness is a self-reinforcing death spiral. One of my favorite analogies illustrating this point is from Stephen Covey’s 7 Habits, about a person has been sawing at a tree for hours and hours and is too busy to stop and sharpen their saw. The key is, they feel great about it, at least on the surface. It’s only later when they stop to reflect that they may stumble and wonder why they weren’t able to fell the tree.

More work does not equal better work. Quality, not quantity. There are so many aphorisms about this. And here I am, tempted to google them all to spit them out in a dramatic way, instead of stopping to dive deep into them and summon forth the wisdom behind the cliche.

***

So, while this piece may come off as an admonishment of all you busyworkers out there, it’s really an admonishment of myself. A reminder, a public commitment, to work smarter, not always harder. To not stop at just writing *anything*, but to cultivate what I produce. To really own the philosophy that life is most rich when you go deep on less, not to grab wildly for as much as possible. This article is a bit hypocritical, because I certainly didn’t put in the time and effort I’m advertising as essential here. But it was running the risk of slipping through the cracks of my mental hard drive from sitting on the back burner too long. I’m glad it’s out of there now.